# Universal Constants
##Abstract

You’re driving through a giant warehouse in a fancy sports car at high speeds. That’s awesome. Now imagine you’re doing all that and dodging around complex, unbreakable pillars. Now it’s even more awesome. This document lays out those pillars.

## Simplified Astronomical Unit

An astronomical unit is specified as the mean distance between Earth and the Sun, which is ~149 million kilometers. This has been simplified and rounded up to 150 million kilometers even to create the sAU.

## Relative Coordinate System

A three coordinate system relying on a contact’s “height”, distance and angle, where the centerpoint is the vessel in question. Height is based on the target’s altitude above the artificial horizon plane of the vessel. Angle is the target’s position along a 360˚ arc, relative to the vessel’s bow (which is at 0˚). Distance is self explanatory and represented in thousands of kilometers (1000 kilometers = 1 klick).

## Stellar Coordinate System

Represented with three coordinates: X, Y and Z, where 0, 0, 0 is the centerpoint of the system’s star (or the Barycenter point in a bi- or trinary%2B star system). Distances are represented in sAU. Used when navigating within a system. In regions of space with no landmarks (stars), the centerpoint for the SCS can be arbitrarily defined using GCS coordinates.

## Galactic Coordinate System

The locations and movements of stellar bodies are calculated and modeled by various government and corporate groups. This data is periodically made available for public consumption and interpretation.

## FTL Transit

Transitioning from one system to another is a complex challenge, culminating with the creation and projection of a rift into and then out of “bluespace”.

The challenging part is determining the location of the exit “rift”. This task falls on the FTL calculation computer. Ten to eleven &nbsp;models of celestial body movements/locations are fed in and then averaged to generate a relatively accurate (± .25 sAU (37.5 million kilometers)) picture of the local galactic neighborhood. Then, instead of specifying coordinates, a user simply selects the star system and stellar body they wish to arrive at.

The entrance rift is generated and projected, based on hardcoded values about the vessel’s height, length and width. Current velocity is also taken into account to determine how long the entrance rift needs to be sustained.

The exit rift is slightly more complicated. Traveling through bluespace is not an exact science. The further the distance between the point of origin and the destination in “realspace” is proportional to how far a ship travels in bluespace. Due to various gravimetric and electromagnetic disturbances in bluespace, a vessel may skew off course by a few centimeters. In realspace, those centimeters translate to whole meters. The FTL computer takes this realspace distance into account and opens a correspondingly wider exit rift to ensure that the entire mass of the vessel exits bluespace.

Astute observers can use the exit rift’s size and angle to determine a vessel’s point of origin.

FTL computers will set the exit point to be within 1 million kilometers of a lagrangian point. These regions are intended for FTL exit points only and must be exited as quickly as possible. Vessels drifting into the region around a lagrangian point will typically be shouted at by traffic control to vacate.

A user may override the preference for a lagrangian region, but will be the target of much derision by traffic control.

## Bluespace

An entrance rift is created by the manipulation of space-time and dark matter through processes only understood by a few incredibly intelligent physicists. What is understood is that the medium that permeates bluespace is susceptible to leaking electromagnetic radiation from vessels. This generates a cloud of Cherenkov radiation around any vessel traveling through bluespace.

Some of this radiation will leak through before an entrance or exit rift has been fully generated. Most vessels are equipped to detect this radiation from an exit rift and will normally have a few minutes to escape before they are annihilated by the exit rift.

##FTL Detection

The radiation generated by a Bluespace rift is composed of many different kinds of particles. The majority of these particles are "normal". Electrons, various forms of radiation, etc. Some of these particles however are "strange" particles. Tachyons, Hawking radiation and many more that haven't even been named yet. Many of these particles travel at FTL speeds and pass through most matter relatively unimpeded, the exception being a slight reduction in speed. 

Large bodies of deuterium oxide(<sup>2</sup>H<sub>2</sub>O) can be used in conjunction with a highly sensitive detection array to "see" these particles as they pass through. Combining this data with two other installations can result in a three-dimensional image of a Bluespace rift. Additionally, the effect of other "regular" matter on these particles can also be detected and mapped, giving a rough image of, say, an enemy fleet exiting Bluespace. Given that these strange particles travel at FTL speeds, Bluespace rifts can be detected in near-realtime.

## FTL Transit Caveats

• A vessel or object crossing the outer edge of a rift, or partially inside/outside the rift when it closes will be “sliced” between atoms. This typically results in an energetic reaction and complete annihilation of said object.

• An unattended rift will eventually collapse on itself, releasing tremendous electromagnetic energy. The effects of this on nearby vessels and other structures usually results in their complete destruction.

• Make sure your rift generators and projectors are working properly before you enter bluespace. You do not want to get stuck in bluespace.

• Entrance or exit rifts cannot be generated in-atmosphere, as they collapse instantaneously (and harmlessly) due to planetary magnetic and gravitational fields (for this reason, all FTL Communication Satellites are space-based)

## FTL Communications

Most communications within a system (ship-to-ship or ship-to-station etc etc) take place via standard terrestrial radios and communication mediums.

Communications between systems are accomplished by way of “FTL Communication Satellites”. Small, sustained rifts are enclosed within heavily armored satellites/space stations. A vessel sending a message from System A to System B will first transmit the message to System A’s FTL Sat. From there, it will be converted and transmitted instantaneously through bluespace to the FTL Sat in System B. From there it will be retransmitted to the intended destination. Thusly, the only latency experienced is the time it takes a message to be transmitted over standard in-system radios.

FTL Satellites are protected by interstellar treaty and administered by an independent non-governmental organization called the Interstellar Communication Facilitation and Management Authority (ICFMA). Tampering with or destroying an FTL Satellite is grounds for immediate destruction.

## FTL Drive Hardware

Tampering with an FTL computer is one of the best ways to ensure the complete destruction or immobilization of your vessel.

Frequently, the primary FTL Computer itself is tied directly to the power management system of a vessel. As a failsafe, cutting power to the FTL Computer will cut power to the entire vessel. Unless directly overridden, software failsafes will also shut down the FTL Computer and vessel’s power.

Even if someone manages to get past all the authentication blocks and failsafes to manipulate the FTL calculations manually, they still run an incredibly high risk of annihilation, as the calculations have a very small margin of error.

Additionally, most vessels are configured to broadcast an emergency signal if an FTL Computer is tampered with.

The military of an as-of-yet unnamed human protagonist government.





